These instructions are for loading class data to a running MySQL database server.

This is not necessary for class.  All that is needed for class is a MySQL
database client, such as Navicat or MySQL Workbench, which can be used to
connect to a server I will host for the class.

Data is provided for two databases, 'sampdb' and 'books'.  The installation
procedure is the same for both.


SETUP AND LOAD FOR MYSQL

- Have a working MySQL server.  See the SOFTWARE_INSTALLATION file for
  instructions on how to do this.
- In your client (Navicat or Workbench), open a connection to your server.
  Instructions for this are also in SOFTWARE_INSTALLATION.
- In the query window, navigate to the directory holding this file, then to the
  subdirectory sampdb/mysql.  Open the file setup_sampdb.sql in your query
  window and run this query (in MySQL Workbench, by clicking the lightning bolt
  icon, or finding the 'Execute' command under the Query menu.)  You cannot run
  the query from another program like Word or a text editor -- you must open
  the file in your client's query editor, and execute that query on your
  server.

This query creates the 'schema' that holds the data and loads the data into the
schema.  Once executed, you don't need the query any more, so you can close the
query editor window containing.  Don't close the connection though, you'll need
that to run queries against the data you've just loaded.


See below for further detail.

Once you have done this for sampdb, do the exact same thing for the database
books.


RUNNING THE QUERIES

Setup Database
--------------
Having opened a database connection, you should see a "SQL Editor" tab.  This
provides facilities for retrieving queries from a file, running those queries
and displaying those queries' results.

Query files can be opened from the menu bar, under File > Open SQL Script.
Navigate to select "setup_sampdb.sql" and click "Open".
-   A tab will appear within the window, with text for a lot of SQL commands
    (queries).
-   Run these queries (commands) from the menu bar: Query > Execute (All or
    Selection).  A subwindow should fill with a long list of command status
    reports.

These queries:
-   Create the database 'sampdb'
-   Create the tables within it
-   Load those tables with data


Checking Success
----------------
On Workbench, in the Schemas subwindow to the left of the query text subwindow,
click the little yin-yang refresh symbol.  The name 'sampdb' should appear on
the list of schemas, with a little expansion triangle to the left of the name.

In Navicat or Workbench, the query 'SHOW TABLES IN sampdb' should output a list
of tables.


CONTACT
-------

If you have any problems or questions, please send me an email.

Gordon
gordon@practicalhorseshoeing.com




